
  NEPAL: DRUG ABUSE A   GROWING CHALLENGE
                              

Drugs: a chemical substance that are taken for physiological and psychological effects on body. Drugs can be legal and illegal, and used for variety of purposes such as medicinal, recreational, and spiritual. Some commonly used legal drugs include prescription medications such as antibiotics, painkillers, and  antidepressants. Illegal drugs include heroin, cocaine, and marijuana which are often used  for recreational purposes but have serious health consequences and legal consequences.



In Nepal, the number of drug users has increased rapidly especially in urban and sub-urban area. The users are mainly teenage groups starting from the age of 18 to 30. A research was conducted in township- Dallu from June 2006 to August 2006. it was found that the 35% users are Injecting Drug Users (IDU) and Multi-Drug Users whereas 65% users use hashish, marijuana, Alcohol, and pharmaceutical drugs. Teenagers use drugs because of stress, pressure at family and school, exploring themselves, and poor coping skills.

Youth are always energetic and they try to experience new thing. They imitate the TV shows, movies, and advertisements. As a result, they become susceptible to drug abuse. Besides drug abuse, Vaping, alcohol, and tobacco are also widely used by teenagers in Nepal. Cannabis is the most commonly used  drug in Nepal followed by Tranquilizers and opiates. Cannabis is commonly found wild herb in central, mid-western, and far-western part of Nepal. Nepal does not manufacture any drug by itself. Cannabis is processed to form Hashish and it is smuggled to UP, Bihar in India to Mumbai and Delhi. As Nepal shares an open border with India, it is really easy to import drugs like opium and its derivatives (brown sugar and white heroin) which are banned in Nepal. Marijuana and  byproducts are used for religious and cultural occasions like Maha Shivaratri, Fagu Purnima (Holi) etc. and as a form of traditional medicine purpose.
The number of drug users were growing at the rate of 5.06% from the year 2013 to 2020. But the number is not same after post pandemic. During Covid-19 pandemic, most of the people become unemployed and free. They really don’t have anything to do at all. They faced family quarrel, divorce, love failure, financial crisis, loneliness, pain, etc. they face sleeping disorder and mental disorder. Because of which they started to take pills. Gradually, they became addicted and became abusers. Internet addiction is another cause for abuse of alcohol and drugs. Most of users either use for entertainment purpose or for failure in their gaming career or any. 
Tribhuvan International Airport is the only International Airport in Nepal from where drug is supplied among multi nations such as Bangladesh, Thailand, India, Germany, Pakistan, etc. Nowadays, drug are seized on regular basis as strict rules and regulations have been implemented to prevent such act. Drug abusers are mainly students and helpers of vehicles. They go to pharmacy either in dusk or in dawn time. They search for very cheap drug and go in groups to buy. In past, male users were much high who are unmarried but now  the no of female users is also increasing rapidly. They get prescription from Doctors and abuse the drugs prescribed by them.

Although Nepal Drug Control Act has been listed in Constitution of Nepal 2072 but it is still not implemented properly.  Very less research is done in this matter as government pay less or no attention to this matter at all. There are no rehabilitation center, hospital, detoxification unit in rural Nepal. How can the drug users of rural Nepal be improved?
         


                                                             

Drug users suffer from mental health problems like Chronic anxiety, psychosis, Schizophrenia, etc. Most of the drug users are sent to mental asylum as they can not be controlled at home. Having separate department for controlling and monitoring illegal sales of drugs. The condition is still the same. Interaction programs, campaigns amongst substance counselors, clinical psychologists, psychologists and abusers should be done time and again. Recovering Nepal is an organization providing technical assistance to people and advocate for increased access to affordable, quality, and comprehensive health care and medical support  related to HIV such as harm reduction, drug treatment, HIV testing, and psychological counseling. All the organizations and government should work hand in hand to minimize this case before it becomes too late.

                                TINY SPARKLE
