 Gurkhas: Better to die than be a coward


The Gurkhas are unique unit in the Army with a reputation of being among the finest and most feared soldier in the world. 
The Royal Gurkha Rifles are infantry are manned by Nepali soldiers, officers and British officers. The role of the infantry is at the core of the Army; from peacekeeping to combat operations, anywhere in the world. Infantry soldiers are trained to be ready for any challenge from desert to jungle. 

All Gurkha soldiers are recruited in Nepal. All officers are expected to speak Nepali and will attend the 3 months language course in Nepal after selection.  

During the war in Nepal in 1814, in which British failed to annex Nepal into the Empire Army officers were impressed by the tenacity of the Gurkha soldiers and encouraged them to volunteer for the East India Company. After India Independence and partition in 1947, under the tripartite agreement, six Gurkhas regiment joined the post-independence Indian Army. Four Gurkha regiments, the 2nd, 6th, 7th, and 10th Gurkha Rifles, joined the British Army on 1st January,1948 A.D.

BRITISH GURKHA ARMY – Gurkha Honour Training Institute
In Nepal, Gurkha troop are selected by British Army Officers. They compete with each other on various fitness tests, educational tests, medical, paperwork checks, and interviews to show the recruitment staff they are the best PRs and deserve the chance to become a Gurkha soldier in Brigade of Gurkhas. Selection of British Army is done in three phase. Phase-3 is the toughest phase which includes Physical Entry Standards (PES). It includes:
2km run- under8 minutes
Jerry can carry- under 2 minutes 
Doko- under 46 minutes-5.8 km
Mid-thigh pull-76 kg
Medicine ball throw-3.1 meter

Marshal Sam Manekshaw said that “If man says he is not afraid of dying. He is either lying or He is Gurkha.”

Gurkhas have received 13 Victoria cross and other awards for their handwork and dedication in battle field. Rifleman Kulbir Thapa was the first Nepali to receive Victoria Cross (VC). From most conspicuous bravery during operation against the German. When himself wounded, on the 25 September 1915, he found a badly injured soldier behind the first line of German Trench, and through urged by the British soldiers to save himself, he remained with him all day and night. In the early morning of 26th September, he brought him out through the German wire, leaving him to safe place and brought in two wounded Gurkhas and after the other. He then went back in broad day light for the British Soldier, and brought carried him most of the way and being at most points under the enemy’s fire.

A Brave Heart, Humble Soul, and a Terrific Warrior.
Jai Gurkha ! Jai Khukuri !!

                                                                                                              TINY SPARKLE
