 

                      PROCRASTINATION

Procrastination: tendency to delay or postpone tasks, usually because they seem difficult, unpleasant, or overwhelmed. It may be common behavior for many people, also it can be a significant source of stress and anxiety, especially if it becomes chronic and interferes with daily life and responsibilities.

 



As many people procrastinate their work, study, or plan because of failure, perfectionism, lack of motivation, poor time, management skills, or simply boredom. Some may procrastinate to avoid difficult or unpleasant tasks. They fear to face the situation and handle result they may get afterwards. One may be busy in his/her work. So, they may not get sufficient time to deal with other as a result the work get procrastinated. Willing or unwilling, we try to deal thing later on as possible which is not a good habit.

It mainly happens mainly with students of any level. It’s like a common behavior to them. Procrastination has negative effects in their academic performance, mental health, and overall wellbeing of them. Students end up rushing to complete their assignments or studying at the last minute which can lead to poor grades and increased stress. They feel guilty of themselves and negative monologue. Students can develop effective management skills, such as breaking assignments into smaller management skills, prioritizing task based on their importance and deadlines. Students are the foundation for future generation. So, they should set goals and establish routines to avoid procrastination and set on track.

To overcome procrastination, we should identify the underlying problems and develop strategies to address them. Time is the most crucial thing whose importance is known after it is gone. Being punctual is necessary in today’s hectic lifestyle. Using tools like timers can help to manage time more effectively. Social media are the distractions for users. They get influenced by social media influencers and imitate them which is not a healthy habit. Although we get to know many things both knowledgeable and cringe stuffs, we should minimize our time to use them. If we are trying to develop our career using them, it’s okay to use. Otherwise, it is just waste of time which provide entertainment for short period of time. We should seek help from parents and friends to stay motivated.

It doesn’t always have negative effects in life which can lead to stress and missed opportunities. But it also has positive effects which enhanced creativity. We may find innovative solution to problem when working under pressure. It increases focus to work better and more effectively. People can also make better decision as they get more time to weigh their option and consider their choices. They can get break from their daily schedule and can feel relax before tackling a task or project. Healthy balance between work and relaxation is necessary to achieve goal in life.

Going through the pace of life, it’s necessary to consider one’s physical and mental health. We should get enough sleep, eat healthy food, and exercise in order to maintain health and brain. It’s okay to make mistakes in life or experience setbacks. We should develop a positive and growth-oriented mindset rewarding yourself for progress. So, we can cultivate better habits and achieve goal in life.        



                                            TINY SPARKLE
