Reading books: a wonderful way to expand knowledge, improve vocabulary, and increase imaginative
and cognitive thoughts. It's a form of entertainment that can be educational to immense ourselves 
in different worlds and perspectives. Books can be of different types, including fiction, non-fiction, biographies, and more.
Genres of books can be of different category such as mystery, romance, history, science, thriller, crime, etc.




Reading books is a personal experience to enjoy as what one person finds enjoyable may not be the same for others. 
First time readers may not find their actual interest of book. They have to keep trying and experiment in each book
until they enjoy it. Books are best recommended in online platforms like Amazon or we can just checkout the bestselle
lists or reviews of books in online. Library is the place where we can read books in very less cost and get access to large 
section of books with monthly fee. The only thing we have to do is renew library's membership card. We can also get books from 
Bookstore or Stationery to increase knowledge except textbooks.

Books can be a way to reduce stress, increase empathy and understanding, and stimulate the imagination.
It provides relaxation after a long day work. New cultures and perspectives of the world can be known by imagining scenarios. 
Reading books in the evening helps to fall asleep easily and relax our body. We also get to know other's feeling and
experience towards the world. Reading books may be time consuming and need concentration to focus but at the end it's a 
fruitful work. The books like "The Diary Of a Young Girl'' by Anne Frank ,"Pride and Prejudice'' by Jane Austen", 
"1984" by George Orwell" are the best sold novels of all the time. A person having hectic schedule may not get time to read books.

The best sellers novels of any language of originality are converted into English language to get access to many people. 
Many Movies, Biopic, and TV shows are made based on the books. Twilight movie series is made based on the book written by
Stephine Mayer which become Blockbuster worldwide. Although reading books may give physical strain but it helps to escape 
from reality and enjoy our time. Online book communities are opened to help the readers to recommend books and share their ideas 
and views regarding the book. Young readers like to choose Comic books over biopic or dense books. Cartoons and  Animations movies
are based on Comic Books.

Nowadays, E-books and Audiobooks are getting popular as anyone can get access to book at anytime from anywhere. It is more 
convenient and less expensive. Whether the books are available in online or digital form, the power of storytelling and the
ability to transport readers to new world continues to captivate and inspire the readers.



                                                                                                                Tiny Sparkle 
