

 Sandhikharka: The Place Redefining The Place
Sandhikharka, Arghakhanchi's headquarter, lies in a hilly region of Lumbini Province at an elevation of 960m from sea level. It is the first municipality of the district formed by merging Sandhikharka, Wangla, Narapani, Khanchikot, Kimdanda, Argha, and Dibharna VDCs on 18th May; 2014.


GEOGRAPHY
Sandhikharka is a small valley surrounded by the range of Argha and Khanchi Hills. Bangi River is flowing through the heart of the city made by the confluence of Bangi, Ghoche, and Bhadri rivers. It is scattered across 129 square kilometers of geographical area bordered by Malarani in the North, Chhatradev and Panini in the East, Bhumikstan in the West and Sitganga in the South respectively.

CLIMATE 
The City has a subtropical climate; however, the temperature remains moderate neither hot nor too cold. The temperature in summer averages between  30 to 37-degree Celsius; in winter around 1 to 10 degrees Celsius. Snowfall is not observed in the city, but Khanchi ridge experiences occasional snowfall in the winter. Summers are warm and rainy. Winters are cold and dry.

HISTORY 
During the medieval period, Argha and Khanchi existed as two Chaubise Rajya (24 Principalities) of the Arghakhanchi District. There was always a dispute between these two kingdoms for the ownership of land. But due to the balance in power, the monarchs decided to make a Sandhi (Treaty) in Kharka (the place where grasses grow and cattle graze). As a result, It led to the name of the headquarter Sandhikharka.


DEMOGRAPHY
 The City with a 41,079 population ( census 2011) which 18,262 are males and 22,817 are females. Despite its small area, people belonging to Hindu, Christian, and Muslim are living happily sharing their temples, churches, and mosque in the city. Brahmin, Chettri, Newar, Kumal, Tharu, Magar, and Kami are the main ethnic groups residing here. They are migrating to Butwal, Kathmandu, and different parts of the Terai Region in search of better jobs, education, and lifestyle.

ECONOMY 
Since 2005, Sandhikharka has experienced rapid Urbanization. As the trend of foreign employment has boosted and millions of remittances have entered in a few years. Besides this, Civil Servants jobs are the choice of the public quitting the lifestyle of farmers and animal husbandry. Few people are running a business of hotels, apparel stores, Groceries, electronic shops, etc inside the city. 


EDUCATION 
Sandhikharka has made significant progress in education compared to the past. Despite rural areas, students from both government and private schools are securing good grades in exams. But it is limited to lower secondary level education. Janajyoti secondary school is the sole college providing education in the science stream in the city. Gaurishankar, Arghakhanchi secondary, Motherland, and Green are the private school whereas Shree yubabarsha, Shree Bhagwati, etc are government schools. Panini Multiple Campus is the only and oldest TU-affiliated college.   

HEALTH
A few years back, health services were limited to prescribing medicine only. Nowadays, Operations, X-Ray, and lab tests are performed in the district hospital. It was selected as one of the best government hospitals in Lumbini Province. Many private clinics and drugstores are opened to provide 24/7 health services. People are feeling happy and convenient as they don't have to go to Butwal for the treatment of small injuries too. 


WAYS TO GET HERE 
It is 380km away from Kathmandu, the capital city of Nepal. So, buses and micro-buses are departed in the morning and evening which takes 10-12 hours to arrive here. If you want to come from Bhairahawa Airport, it will take only 4-5 hours. Or, You can get private as well as public automobiles from Butwal as it is linked with East-West Highway. After 5 years, you can come directly to Sandhikharka as an airport is under construction.


TOURIST ATTRACTIONS

SHANTI BAGAINCHA
Shanti Bagaincha (Peace Garden) is a refreshing center for inhabitants. It retains a good ambiance. This garden contains mango trees, beautiful flowers, and a fountain at the center. A few years back, Haritalika Teej used to be celebrated here. Shree Ganesh Temple is present where the marriage ceremony is conducted. People can come and visit the garden from 6 am to 6 pm without purchasing tickets to enter.


ARGHA MANDIR
It is a sacred Hindu temple of Goddess Kali (the destroyer of the evil force).  It lies 2000m above sea level. Devotees come here especially during Dashain- the greatest festival of Hindus. Saraye Naach is performed during Dashain's Purnima (full moon) which is the specialty of this temple. Besides, dance is also performed. Many people visit there to get a  scenic view of Sandhikharka and Khanchikot. 


SUPA DEURALI TEMPLE
The Supa Deurali Temple is a Hindu Temple situated in Khanchikot, Arghakhanchi district. It is a famous pilgrimage site not only for the inhabitants of Arghakhanchi District but also for the people of western Nepal. There is a myth that one of the soldiers (Lahure) was affixed to the middle of the rock. He promised that he will provide a gold chain to Devi (goddess) after being recruited to Army. But he overlooked and passed the way furtively. As a result, the miraculous power of the goddess brought him back to the temple and fixed him. It is still visible as a black dark spot. Thousands of devotees visit the temple per day as their wishes become fulfilled.



